													*CSS and CSS 3*


1. What are the benefits of using CSS?

Ans: There are a number of benefits of CSS, including:
	1) Faster Page Speed. More code means slower page speed. ...
	2) Better User Experience. CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows for user-friendly formatting. ...
	3) Quicker Development Time. ...
	4) Easy Formatting Changes. ...
	5) Compatibility Across Devices.

2. What are the disadvantages of CSS? 

Ans: Disadvantages of CSS:

	1) CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among  web browsers.
	2) With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. The web developers need to test for compatibility, running 	     the program across multiple browsers.
	3) There exists a scarcity of security.
	4) After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. The similar change affects on all the browsers.
	5) The programming language world is complicated for non-developers and beginners. Different levels of CSS i.e. CSS, CSS 2, CSS 3 are 	     often quite confusing.
	6) Browser compatibility (some styles sheet are supported and some are not).
	7) CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.
	8) There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.
	9) There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners.

3. What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3? 

Ans: 
						CSS2	                                                                                                                       CSS3

	CSS splits up different sections of the code into modules.				Both CSS and HTML were put into a single file, there was no 																			concept of modules before.

	There are new ways you can write CSS rules with a bunch 				There were no new ways of writing the CSS rules.
	of CSS selectors.        
 
	There is no backward compatibility with CSS2							There is backward compatibility maintained with CSS 3

	With CSS2 only web safe fonts can be used							With CSS3 special fonts can be used such as those in Google 																			Fonts and TypeCast

	With CSS2 the concept of simple selectors were present				With CSS3 the selectors were called as a sequence of simple 																			seletors.com

	Using CSS2, for rounded borders, coding the css styles 				With CSS3, thre is provision for automatically assigning rounded 	were complex														borders to objects21
		
	CSS2, splitting text into multiple columns required complex 			CSS3 has the capability to split text into various columns so that 	coding because the standard was not equipped enough to 				each text block appears as a layout of the newspaper.
	break the text into columns so that it would fit into a box				 																		
	CSS2 Doesn’t support the border-Box property						CSS3 supports the Vorder-Box property

	
4. Name a few CSS style components.

Ans: The components of css style are:
	 Selector: class name, id name or element name that is target
	 Attribute: name of the attribute you want to style for example border, color,background, position etc.
	 Value of Property: value that will be assigned to attribute.

5. What do you understand by CSS opacity? 

Ans: The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the 	  opposite of transparency.

6.  How can the background color of an element be changed?

Ans: To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside 	  a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.

7. How can image repetition of the backup be controlled? 

Ans: To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the background-repeat property. You can use no-repeat value for the 	  	 	 background-repeat property if you do not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.

8. What is the use of the background-position property? 

Ans: The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. By default, a background-image is placed at the top-	  left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.

9.  Which property controls the image scroll in the background? 

Ans: To set the scrolling of an image in the background, use the background-attachment property.

10. Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
 
Ans: There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if 	  it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase. Color is an inherited property while the background is not. Color is 		  	  referring to the text color in that element. Background is shorthand to combine many background tags into one line.

11.  How to center block elements using CSS1?

Ans: To centrally align the block elements, we can simply make use of the <center> tag. All the elements within the <center> tag will be 	 	 	  centrally aligned.

12. How to maintain the CSS specifications? 

Ans: The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Even though every browser supports CSS, there are 	 	  many inconsistencies in the supported specification version. Some browsers even have their own implementation of the specification and 	  have proprietary (vendor) prefixes.

13. What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?

Ans: There are 3 ways to integrate CSS as a web page:
	a)Inline: HTML elements may have CSS into a webpage.
	b)Embedded: By placing the code in a STYLE element within the HEAD element.
	c)Linked/Imported: Place the CSS in an exertnal file and link it via a link element.

14. What is embedded style sheets? 

Ans: Embedded style sheets allow you to define styles for the whole HTML document in one place. Embedded style sheets refer to when you 	 	 embed style sheet information into an HTML document using the <style> element. You do this by embedding the style sheet information 	 	 within <style></style> tags in the head of your document.

15. What are the external style sheets?

Ans: An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple 	 	 webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

16. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
 
Ans: The advantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :
     -With the help of External Style Sheets, the styles of numerous documents can be organized from one single file.
     -In External Style Sheets, Classes can be made for use on numerous HTML element types in many forms of the site.
     -In complex contexts, Methods like selector and grouping can be implemented to apply styles.

     The disadvantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :
     -An extra download is essential to import style information for each file.
     -The execution of the file may be deferred till the external style sheet is loaded.
     -While implementing style sheets, we need to test Web pages with multiple browsers in order to check 	compatibility issues.

17. What is the meaning of the CSS selector?

Ans: A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements 	 	 should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

18. What are the media types allowed by CSS?

Ans: Media queries in CSS3 extended the CSS2 media types idea: Instead of looking for a type of device, they look at the capability of the 	 	 device.

	 Media queries can be used to check many things, such as:

	 width and height of the viewport
	 width and height of the device
	 orientation (is the tablet/phone in landscape or portrait mode?)
	 resolution

19. What is the rule set? 

Ans: A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what data is allowable and how the data is handled between 	 	 	 interconnected systems.